---
layout: post
title:  "Git tips"
date:   2017-03-12 15:32:17 +0700
categories: Git
---
There are some tips about GIT, I want to note for you and me.

---
## Add .gitignore to existed repo
First commit any outstanding code changes, and then, run this command:
```bash
git rm -r --cached .
```

This removes everything from theindex, then just run:
```bash
git add .
```
Commit it:
```bash
git commit -m ".gitignore is now working"
```

_Note: You can also remove individual files, if you don't want such a drastic approach:_

```bash
git rm --cached filename
```
---
## git stash: a Clipboard for Your Changes

Let's say you currently have a couple of local modifications:

```bash
$ git status
  modified:   build.gradle
  modified:   README.md
```  
If you have to switch context - e.g. because you need to work on an urgent bug - you need to get these changes out of the way. You shouldn't just commit them, of course, because it's unfinished work.

This is where "git stash" comes in handy:
```bash
$ git stash
Saved working directory and index state WIP on master: 
   01b2ff2 layout for Home Activity
HEAD is now at 01b2ff2 layout for Home Activity
```
Your working copy is now clean: all uncommitted local changes have been saved on this kind of "clipboard" that Git's Stash represents. You're ready to start your new task (for example by pulling changes from remote or simply switching branches).

This "clipboard" is a stack of changes, so you can save many changes you like. And view with this command
```bash
$ git stash list
stash@{0}: WIP on feature/ui_v1.1: 01b2ff2 layout for Home Activity
stash@{1}: WIP on (no branch): efc4a8a implement cypher
```

Continuing Where You Left Off

As already mentioned, Git's Stash is meant as a temporary storage. When you're ready to continue where you left off, you can restore the saved state easily:
```bash
$ git stash pop
```
The "pop" flag will reapply the last saved state and, at the same time, delete its representation on the Stash (in other words: it does the clean-up for you).